PEM-7758 - Appliance Framework for Self-Hosted Palette and Palette VerteX (#7197)
spectrocloud/librarium: _partials/self-hosted/appliance-framework/_installation-steps-enablement.mdx

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: installation-steps-enablement
---

1. Download the {props.iso} ISO from the Artifact Studio. Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC) guide for
   instructions on how to access and download the ISO.

> 2. Upload the ISO to your infrastructure provider. This can be done using the web interface of your infrastructure

Reviewer: Should we maybe provide more guidance here? I know it's annoying lol 
I'm just not sure I would be able to complete this step by myself.

Author: I will provide links as per Amanda's suggestion.

     boot the nodes from the ISO.
   - For Machine as a Service (MAAS), you can use the MAAS web interface to upload the ISO.

   Ensure that the ISO is accessible to all nodes that will be part of the {props.version} management cluster.

3. Boot each node from the ISO to install the necessary software for {props.version}. The installation process will
   automatically configure the nodes with the required components, including the operating system, Kubernetes, CNI, and
   CSI.

4. Once the nodes have booted from the ISO, they will automatically start the installation process. The GRand Unified
   Bootloader (GRUB) screen may be displayed with selectable options, this should be ignored as the installation will
   proceed automatically.

   Wait for the installation process to complete. This will take at least 15 minutes, depending on the resources
   available on the nodes. After completion, the nodes will reboot and display the Palette Terminal User Interface
   (TUI).

5. Log in to the nodes using the default credentials for Kairos Ubuntu. The default username is `kairos` and the
   password is `kairos`.

> 6. In the Palette TUI, configure the nodes as per your environment requirements. Use the Tab key or the up and down

Reviewer: What does this mean? maybe a screenshot would be useful?

   arrow keys to switch between fields. When you make a change, press **Enter** to apply the change. Use **Esc** to
   back.

7. In **Hostname**, check the existing hostname and, optionally, change it to a new one.

> 8. In **Host Network Adapters**, select a network adapter you'd like to configure. By default, the network adapters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. In **Host Network Adapters**, select a network adapter you would like to configure. By default, the network adapters
```

   request an IP automatically from the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server. The CIDR block of an
   adapter's possible IP address is displayed in the **Host Network Adapters** screen without selecting an individual
   adapter.

   In the configuration page for each adapter, you can change the IP addressing scheme of the adapter and choose static
   IP instead of DHCP. In Static IP mode, you will need to provide a static IP address, subnet mask, as well as the
   address of the default gateway. Specifying a static IP will remove the existing DHCP settings.

   You can also specify the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) for your network adapter. The MTU defines the largest size,
   in bytes, of a packet that can be sent over a network interface without needing to be fragmented.

9. In **DNS Configuration**, specify the IP address of the primary and alternate name servers. You can optionally
   specify a search domain.

10. After you are satisfied with the configurations, navigate to **Quit** and press **Enter** to finish the
    configuration. Press **Enter** again on the confirmation prompt.

>     After a few seconds, the terminal displays the **Device Info** and prompts you to provision the device through the
>     Local UI.

Author: ```suggestion
    After a few seconds, the terminal displays the **Device Info** and prompts you to provision the device through Local UI.
```

12. Decide on the host that you plan to use as the leader of the group. Refer to <VersionedLink text="Link Hosts" url="/clusters/edge/local-ui/cluster-management/link-hosts#leader-hosts"/> for more information about leader hosts.

13. Access the Local UI of the leader host. The Local UI is used to manage the {props.version} nodes and perform administrative
    tasks. It provides a web-based interface for managing the {props.version} management cluster.

    In your web browser, go to `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of your node. If you
    have changed the default port of the console, replace `5080` with the Local UI port. The address of Local UI console
    is also displayed on the terminal screen of the node.

    If you are accessing the Local UI for the first time, a security warning may be displayed in your web browser. This
    is because the Local UI uses a self-signed certificate. You can safely ignore this warning and proceed to the Local
    UI.

14. Log in to Local UI using the default credentials. The default username is `kairos` and the password is `kairos`. You
    can change the password after logging in.

> 15. Click the username drop-down menu in the top right corner and select **Update password**. Provide the **Old

Author: Yes, I think you're right.

17. From the left main menu, click **Linked Edge Hosts**.

18. Click **Generate token**. This will make the host start generating tokens you will use to link this host with other
    hosts. The base-64 encoded token contains the IP address of the host, as well as an OTP that will expire in two
    minutes. Once a token expires, the leader generates another token automatically.

19. Click the **Copy** button to copy the token.

20. Log in to Local UI on the host that you want to link to the leader host.

21. From the left main menu, click **Linked Edge Hosts**.

22. Click **Link this device to another**.

23. In the pop-up box that appears, enter the token you copied from the leader host.

24. Click **Confirm**.

25. Repeat steps 20-24 for every host you want to link to the leader host.

26. Confirm that all linked hosts appear in the **Linked Edge Hosts** table. The following columns should show the
    required statuses:

    - **Status** = Ready
    - **Content** = Synced

>       - Content synchronization will take at least five minutes to complete dependant on your network resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Content synchronization will take at least five minutes to complete, depending on your network resources.
```

    | **OCI Pack Registry Ca Cert (Optional)**      | The CA certificate that was used to sign the registry certificate.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | Base64 encoded string | _No default_                              |
    | **Root Domain (Optional)**                    | The root domain for the registry. The default is set for the internal Zot registry, which is a virtual IP address assigned by [kube-vip](https://kube-vip.io/). If using an external registry, adjust this to the appropriate domain. This must match the root domain specified in the registry certificate. | String                | **`{{.spectro.system.cluster.kubevip}}`** |

>     | **Mongo Replicas (Optional)**                 | The number of MongoDB replicas to create for the cluster. The accepted values are **1** or **3**. We recommend using **3** to provide high availability for the MongoDB database.                                                                                                                            | Integer               | **`3`**                                   |

Author: Yes, nice catch.

    | **Registry Cert**                             | The certificate for the registry used for TLS encryption.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Base64 encoded string | _No default - must be provided_           |
    | **Registry Endpoint**                         | The DNS/IP endpoint for the registry. Leave the default entry if using the internal Zot registry, which is a virtual IP address assigned by [kube-vip](https://kube-vip.io/). Adjust if using an external registry.                                                                                          | String                | **`{{.spectro.system.cluster.kubevip}}`** |

>     | **In Cluster Registry (Optional)**            | **True** = use internal Zot registry, **False** = use external registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Boolean               | **True**                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **In Cluster Registry (Optional)**            | If set to `True`, the cluster uses the internal Zot registry. If set to `False`, the cluster uses an external registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Boolean               | **True**                                  |
```
maybe?

32. Click **Next** when you are done.

33. In **Cluster Config**, configure the following options.

    #### Cluster Config Options

    | **Option**                                 | **Description**                                                                                | **Type** | **Default**  |
    | ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------ |
    | **Network Time Protocol (NTP) (Optional)** | The NTP servers to synchronize time within the cluster.                                        | String   | _No default_ |
    | **SSH Keys (Optional)**                    | The public SSH keys to access the cluster nodes. Add additional keys by clicking **Add Item**. | String   | _No default_ |
    | **Virtual IP Address (VIP)**               | The virtual IP address for the cluster. This is used for load balancing and high availability. | String   | _No default_ |

    Click **Next** when you are done.

34. In **Node Config**, configure the following options.

    :::important

>     It is recommended to have at least three control plane nodes for high availability. You can remove the worker node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    We recommend having at least three control plane nodes for high availability. You can remove the worker node
```

    | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
    | **Node pool name**                               | The name of the worker node pool. This will be used to identify the node pool in {props.version}.                                                                             | String                                               | **`worker-pool`** |
    | **Additional Kubernetes Node Labels (Optional)** | Tags for the node pool in `key:value` format. These tags can be used to filter and search for node pools in {props.version}.                                                  | String                                               | _No default_      |

>     | **Taints**                                       | Taints for the node pool in `key=value:effect` format. Taints are used to prevent pods from being scheduled on the nodes in this pool unless they tolerate the taint. | Key = string, Value = string, Effect = string (enum) | _No default_      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | **Taints**                                       | Taints for the node pool in `key=value:effect` format. Taints are used to prevent pods from being scheduled on the nodes in this pool unless they tolerate the taint. | - **Key** = string <br />- **Value** = string<br />- **Effect** = string (enum) | _No default_      |
```

    </TabItem>

    </Tabs>

    ##### Pool Configuration

    The following options are available for both the control plane and worker node pools. You can configure these
    options to your requirements. You can also remove worker pools if not needed.

    | **Option**               | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                           | **Type**      | **Default**                                                                                      |
    | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

>     | **Architecture**         | The CPU architecture of the nodes. This is used to ensure compatibility with the applications running on the nodes.                                                                       | String (enum) | **`amd64`**                                                                                      |

Author: ```suggestion
    | **Architecture**         | The CPU architecture of the nodes. This is used to ensure compatibility with the applications operating on the nodes.                                                                       | String (enum) | **`amd64`**                                                                                      |
```

    | **Add Edge Hosts**       | Click **Add Item** and select the other hosts that you installed using the Appliance Framework ISO. These hosts will be added to the node pool. Each pool must contain at least one node. | N/A           | - **Control Plane Pool** = _Current host selected_ <br /> - **Worker Pool** = _No host selected_ |
    | **NIC Name**             | The name of the network interface card (NIC) to use for the nodes. Leave on **Auto** to let the system choose the appropriate NIC, or select one manually from the drop-down menu.        | N/A           | **Auto**                                                                                         |

>     | **Host Name (Optional)** | The hostname for the nodes. This is used to identify the nodes in the cluster. A generated hostname is provided automatically, and you can adjust to your requirements.                   | String        | **`edge-*`**                                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | **Host Name (Optional)** | The hostname for the nodes. This is used to identify the nodes in the cluster. A generated hostname is provided automatically, which you can adjust to your requirements.                   | String        | **`edge-*`**                                                                                     |
```

35. Click **Next** when you are done.

36. In **Review**, check that your configuration is correct. If you need to make changes, click on any of the sections
    in the left sidebar to go back and edit the configuration.

    When you are satisfied with your configuration, click **Deploy Cluster**. This will start the cluster creation
    process.

>     The cluster creation process will take 20-30 minutes to complete. You can monitor progress from the **Overview** tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The cluster creation process will take 20 to 30 minutes to complete. You can monitor progress from the **Overview** tab
```

    is expected, as you have not yet uploaded your TLS certificate. You can ignore this warning message and proceed.

38. You will be prompted to log in to {props.version} system console. Use `admin` as the username and `admin` as the password.
    You will change the password after logging in.

39. In the **Account Info** window, provide the following information:

    - **Email address** - This is used for notifications and password recovery as well as logging in to the {props.version}
      system console.
      - This will not be active until you <PaletteVertexUrlMapper edition={props.edition} text="configure SMTP settings" url="/system-management/smtp"/> in {props.version} system console and verify your email address.
    - **Current password** - Use `admin` as the current password.
    - **New password** - Enter a new password for the account.
    - **Confirm new password** - Re-enter the new password for confirmation.

    Refer to <PaletteVertexUrlMapper edition={props.edition} text="Password Requirements and Security" url="/system-management/account-management/credentials#password-requirements-and-security"/> to learn about password requirements.

> After login, a summary page is displayed. You now have access to the {props.version} system console, where you can manage your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After logging in, a summary page is displayed. You now have access to the {props.version} system console, where you can manage your
```
